README.md, before:

# CMS API with Authentication and Blog Management

This project is a Django-based Content Management System (CMS) API that provides functionality for user authentication and blog management. It includes features like JWT-based authentication, blog creation, editing, viewing, and a liking system, with role-based access control.

---

## Features

### **User Authentication**
- User registration and login using JWT authentication.
- Manage user accounts:
  - Create, update, and delete accounts.
  - View details of the authenticated user (`/me`).

### **Blog Management**
- Blog post management:
  - Create, retrieve, update, and delete blog posts.
  - Public posts are accessible by any user.
  - Private posts are restricted to their owners.
- Like/unlike functionality for blog posts.

### **Database Design**
- **User Table**: Manages user credentials and details.
- **Post Table**: Stores blog posts with metadata like creation date, owner, and visibility.
- **Like Table**: Tracks which users like which posts.

---

## API Endpoints

### **Accounts (Authentication)**
| Method | Endpoint          | Description                 |
|--------|-------------------|-----------------------------|
| POST   | `/accounts`       | Register a new user.        |
| POST   | `/accounts/login` | Log in and retrieve a token.|
| PUT    | `/accounts`       | Update user details.        |
| DELETE | `/accounts`       | Delete user account.        |
| GET    | `/me`             | Get logged-in user details. |

### **Blog**
| Method | Endpoint            | Description                       |
|--------|---------------------|-----------------------------------|
| POST   | `/blog`             | Create a new blog post.           |
| GET    | `/blog`             | Retrieve all blog posts.          |
| GET    | `/blog/<id>`        | Retrieve a specific blog post.    |
| PUT    | `/blog/<id>`        | Update a blog post (owner-only).  |
| DELETE | `/blog/<id>`        | Delete a blog post (owner-only).  |

### **Likes**
| Method | Endpoint               | Description                      |
|--------|------------------------|----------------------------------|
| POST   | `/like/<blog_id>`      | Like a blog post.                |
| DELETE | `/like/<blog_id>`      | Unlike a blog post.              |

---

## Technologies Used
- **Backend Framework**: Django, Django REST Framework (DRF).
- **Authentication**: JWT via `djangorestframework-simplejwt`.
- **Database**: SQLite.
- **Testing**: Built-in Django `TestCase` for unit testing.

---

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip (Python package manager)

---

## Installation and Setup

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone <repo_url>
   cd cms_project

2. **Create a Virtual Environment**:
   ```bash
   python -m venv env
   source env/bin/activate  # For Linux/Mac
   env\Scripts\activate     # For Windows
   ```

3. **Install Dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Apply Database Migrations**:
   ```bash
   python manage.py makemigrations
   python manage.py migrate
   ```

5. **Run the Development Server**:
   ```bash
   python manage.py runserver
   ```

6. **Access the API**:
   Visit `http://127.0.0.1:8000` to start interacting with the API.

---

## Testing
1. **Run Unit Tests**:
   ```bash
   python manage.py test
   ```

2. **Use Postman**:
   A Postman collection is included in the repository for testing API endpoints.

---

## Notes
- Ensure sensitive information is stored in environment variables for production environments.

Commit message:

feat: Add Postman collection and environment

README.md, after:

# CMS API with Authentication and Blog Management

This project is a Django-based Content Management System (CMS) API that provides functionality for user authentication and blog management. It includes features like JWT-based authentication, blog creation, editing, viewing, and a liking system, with role-based access control.

---

## Features

### **User Authentication**
- User registration and login using JWT authentication.
- Manage user accounts:
  - Create, update, and delete accounts.
  - View details of the authenticated user (`/me`).

### **Blog Management**
- Blog post management:
  - Create, retrieve, update, and delete blog posts.
  - Public posts are accessible by any user.
  - Private posts are restricted to their owners.
- Like/unlike functionality for blog posts.

### **Database Design**
- **User Table**: Manages user credentials and details.
- **Post Table**: Stores blog posts with metadata like creation date, owner, and visibility.
- **Like Table**: Tracks which users like which posts.

---

## API Endpoints

### **Accounts (Authentication)**
| Method | Endpoint          | Description                 |
|--------|-------------------|-----------------------------|
| POST   | `/accounts`       | Register a new user.        |
| POST   | `/accounts/login` | Log in and retrieve a token.|
| PUT    | `/accounts`       | Update user details.        |
| DELETE | `/accounts`       | Delete user account.        |
| GET    | `/me`             | Get logged-in user details. |

### **Blog**
| Method | Endpoint            | Description                       |
|--------|---------------------|-----------------------------------|
| POST   | `/blog`             | Create a new blog post.           |
| GET    | `/blog`             | Retrieve all blog posts.          |
| GET    | `/blog/<id>`        | Retrieve a specific blog post.    |
| PUT    | `/blog/<id>`        | Update a blog post (owner-only).  |
| DELETE | `/blog/<id>`        | Delete a blog post (owner-only).  |

### **Likes**
| Method | Endpoint               | Description                      |
|--------|------------------------|----------------------------------|
| POST   | `/like/<blog_id>`      | Like a blog post.                |
| DELETE | `/like/<blog_id>`      | Unlike a blog post.              |

---

## Technologies Used
- **Backend Framework**: Django, Django REST Framework (DRF).
- **Authentication**: JWT via `djangorestframework-simplejwt`.
- **Database**: SQLite.
- **Testing**: Built-in Django `TestCase` for unit testing.

---

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip (Python package manager)

---

## Installation and Setup

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone <repo_url>
   cd cms_project

2. **Create a Virtual Environment**:
   ```bash
   python -m venv env
   source env/bin/activate  # For Linux/Mac
   env\Scripts\activate     # For Windows
   ```

3. **Install Dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Apply Database Migrations**:
   ```bash
   python manage.py makemigrations
   python manage.py migrate
   ```

5. **Run the Development Server**:
   ```bash
   python manage.py runserver
   ```

6. **Access the API**:
   Visit `http://127.0.0.1:8000` to start interacting with the API.

---

## Testing
1. **Run Unit Tests**:
   ```bash
   python manage.py test
   ```

2. **Use Postman**:
   A Postman collection is included in the repository for testing API endpoints.

# Postman Collection and Environment for Blog API

This directory contains the Postman collection and environment for the Blog API.

## How to Import:

1.  Open Postman.
2.  Click on **Import** (usually located at the top-left).
3.  Choose **File** and select the `postman_collection.json` file.
4.  Click **Import**.
5.  Go to **Environments** in Postman.
6.  Click on **Import**.
7.  Choose **File** and select the `postman_environment.json` file.
8.  Click **Import**.

---

## Notes
- Ensure sensitive information is stored in environment variables for production environments.
